#  Modern Cybersecurity Techniques
Luke Campbell
DevMountain
Cybersecurity
3 May 2024

Modern Day Cybersecurity
We live in a world where digital spaces shape our lives, and with that cybersecurity is a persistent threat. Unless you have been living under a rock you probably have some personal information out there that should stay that way. There are about a million and one different types of threats in cyberspace. There are so many reasons to practice superb cybersecurity whether you're a large business or just an individual no one is safe without the proper measures.
Cyber security utilizes safeguards to keep all personal information online safe and out of the hands of hackers. Everything nowadays is connected to the internet with incredible amounts of personal data. Not just individuals use the cyberspace though, businesses and governments do too. Due to them being large scale it makes them a large target with more information to gain, this info can include: infastructure, personal information like credit card details, and more. "As of October 2023, data breaches have exposed over 600 million records." statistic from “Why Is Cybersecurity Important: Cybersecurity.” CompTIA.  There can be many motivations behind an attack such as financial gain, hacktivism, and espionage. If someone were to get into a system with online assets or finnancial information they can rob you of it or hold your assets for ransom. Hacktivists are threats driven by political or social causes. They don't usually seek financial gain they commonly want to spread their beleifs or expose an organization for one reason or another. Espionage is the act of spying on an individual or an organization. Usually information is gathered by spyware and the user wouldn't even know it's there. This can be used for political gain or economic. In some cases, other countries spy on each other to get an inside look at things like government secrets. These hackers can use all kinds of threats to penetrate a system.
With the persistent growth of technology brings constant new ways for hackers to penetrate your system. OWASP lists the top 10 security threats that companies should keep an eye out for stating on their website that The OWASP Top 10 is a standard awareness document for developers and web application security." "OWASP Top 10" owasp.org. One example for the top 10 is injection, injection is when an attacker is able to inject code into a site that is then computed, usually called malware. Malware has many different faces like ransomware and spyware used for different purposes, but both are injected into a system. Another very common threat is called a phishing attack. This is often very successful because it targets humans directly by pretending to be something they are not, for example, an email that looks like it's from your bank requesting personal information. Now there are many ways to combat this such as identifying the flaws or verifying with your bank however it still gets some people. Phishing falls under the social engineering category. This threat doesn't just stop at emails, there have been times they have made calls using artificial intelligence to trick individuals. This all can be combated in what seems to be an ongoing war.
Individuals, companies, and governments can practice cyber security to protect themselves. As I mentioned before people can make themselves aware of the threats they face such as phishing attacks and know how to combat them. It would benefit a company to implement cybersecurity before an attack because they can lose a lot more money than they would spend on a specialist or team. They can spread awareness to their employees through programs to stop phishing attacks and hire network security. In an article by check point, they state that " "What is Cybersecurity for Governments" Checkpoint.com. The government is a prime target of cyber attacks for a variety of reasons."  By reducing their risks they can save themselves more in damages than they could ever spend. They have a responsibility to protect that data as a government. 
You can never be too safe no matter who you are online. There are so many threats out there and you should know how to fight them. Anyone can benefit from the implementation of cybersecurity whether you are just an online shopper, business, or government they all get targeted.
“Why Is Cybersecurity Important: Cybersecurity.” CompTIA, www.comptia.org/content/articles/why-is-cybersecurity-important#:~:text=By%20prioritizing%20cybersecurity%2C%20organizations%20can,threat%20landscape%20safely%20and%20securely. Accessed 3 May 2024. 
Michali. “What Is Cybersecurity for Governments?” Check Point Software, Check Point Software, 29 Mar. 2023, www.checkpoint.com/cyber-hub/cyber-security/what-is-cybersecurity-for-governments/#:~:text=Cybersecurity%20solutions%20for%20governments%20focus,other%20disruptive%20and%20damaging%20cyberattacks. 
“Why Is Cybersecurity Important: Cybersecurity.” CompTIA, www.comptia.org/content/articles/why-is-cybersecurity-important#:~:text=By%20prioritizing%20cybersecurity%2C%20organizations%20can,threat%20landscape%20safely%20and%20securely. Accessed 3 May 2024. 
